13. Security Guidelines

### Guidelines

- Accessibility and Extensibility guidelines: make methods that are not used outside private. make classes final.
    
- when codes fails to close files then that program will be susceptible to DDOS attacks
    
- Guideline 1-1 / DOS-1: Beware of activities that may use disproportionate resources Java deserialization and Java Beans XML deserialization of malicious data may result in unbounded memory or CPU usage.
    
- Approaches for handling sensitive fields in serializable classes are:
    
    - Declare sensitive fields transient
    - Define the serialPersistentFields array field appropriately
    - Implement writeObject and use ObjectOutputStream.putField() selectively
    - Implement writeReplace to replace the instance with a serial proxy
    - Implement the Externalizable interface
- to secure your application you need to avoid mutability. returning references to an array may alter the array, therefore the safest possible way is to return clones of object
    
- "Execute Around Method" pattern highlighted in Guideline 1-2 / DOS-2: Release resources in all cases.
    
- It is possible an object to change after input validation. Thus, it should be cloned first and then validation should be performed.
    
- must check how many files are open
    
- Guideline 6-6 / MUTABLE-6: "Treat passing input to untrusted object as output", it is preferrable to clone objects before passing them on to untrusted code to avoid the possibility of any malicious updates to your objects.
    
- Guideline 9-3 / ACCESS-3:
    
    "Safely invoke java.security.AccessController.doPrivileged", the given code should retrieve a system property using a hardcoded value instead of passing user input directly to the OS. In the given code, the user can potentially wreck the application by requesting illformated or mischievious property name. Since the code is privileged, the call may cause unwanted impact directly on the OS.
    
- leaving a socket open means it is susceptible to DOS attacks.
    
- Guideline 3-4 / INJECT-4: Avoid any untrusted data on the command line When creating new processes, do not place any untrusted data on the command line. Behavior is platform-specific, poorly documented, and frequently surprising. Malicious data may, for instance, cause a single argument to be interpreted as an option (typically a leading - on Unix or / on Windows) or as two separate arguments. Any data that needs to be passed to the new process should be passed either as encoded arguments (e.g., Base64), in a temporary file, or through a inherited channel.
    
- Guideline 3-3 / INJECT-3: XML and HTML generation requires care Untrusted data should be properly sanitized before being included in HTML or XML output. Failure to properly sanitize the data can lead to many different security problems, such as Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) and XML Injection vulnerabilities. It is important to be particularly careful when using Java Server Pages (JSP).
    
- Usage of public arrays should be avoided.