5. Exception Handling

### try-with-resource

- The auto-closeable variables defined in the try-with-resources statement are implicitly final. Thus, they cannot be reassigned.
- the moment an `exception` is thrown terminate the application except when it is caught.
- Resources are closed at the end of the try block and before any catch or finally block.
- resources are not available in the catch and finally block.
- when a method throws an exception you can call other methods that does not throw any exceptions. when you call a method that throws an exception in a method that does not throw an exception it will not compile unless it catches the exception
- `FileReader` instantly searches for a file. if not found throw `FileNotFoundException`
- throwing null will produce a `NullPointerException` if it is caught
- when opening a stream on a file, reading or writing from/to a file always declare `IOException`
- lower level exceptions can be caught by higher level exceptions
- java exception mechanism is used for
    - use to determine what to do when something unexpected happens
    - logging unexpected behavior
- watch out for suppressed exceptions

### Exceptions

- But before exiting out of the main method, finally must be executed
- when overriding the subsclass can only throw the same exception or a subtype
- with constructors it must throw the same exceptions
- when an exception has been caught successfully the program keeps going and will continue to the finally block
- in a multi catch block order of the exceptions are not important as long as they do not share a ancestor/successor relationship
- when a catch or finally returns a number or the method itself. always go for the last one that gets executed
- `RuntimeExceptions` do not have to be caught
- when a method that throws an exception is called but it has a parameter, the parameter is evaluated before the exception is thrown.
- when catching exceptions, the exceptions that are declared are effectively final.
- pay attention to returns that are after a finally block that are unreachable
- when there is an infinite loop it will throw a `java.lang.OutOfMemoryError`. check what the catch clause catches. infinite loops will compile but will throw an error.
- throwing a checked exception from a static block to the outside will cause the code to not compile
- an instance block is allowed to throw a checked exception only if that exception is declared in the throws clause of all the constructors of the class
- when a finally block throws an exception that exception will most of the time be unhandled so the code will not compile.
- Exception mechanism allows creation of custom exceptions
- improves code because error handling code is separated from the main program logic

### Methods vs Constructors

- overridden methods can't throw a broader exceptions it can throw the same exceptions or a subclass. constructors of childclasses can throw broader exceptions but it must throw the exception that is thrown in the super constructor