10. Streams and Lambda

### General

- Streams have 3 different parts:
    
    - source: source of the data
    - intermediate operations: intermediate operations return a stream and can be chained
    - terminal operations: produces the stream. can't chain
        - intermediate streams are lazy and will only be invoked when a terminal operations is ran
- Terminal operations: operations to complete the stream. without a terminal operation the intermediate operations can't be ran
    
    - the terminal operation are
        - ```Java
                            boolean allMatch()
                                            boolean anyMatch(Predicate p)
                                            boolean noneMatch(Predicate p)
                                            <R> R	collect​(Supplier<R> supplier, BiConsumer<R,​? super T> accumulator, BiConsumer<R,​R> combiner)
                                            <R,​A> 
                                            R	collect​(Collector<? super T,​A,​R> collector)
                                            long count()
                                            void forEach()
                                            Optional<T> min()
                                            Optional<T> max()
                                            Optional<T> reduce​(BinaryOperator<T> accumulator)
                                            T reduce​(T identity, BinaryOperator<T> accumulator)
                                            <U> U reduce​(U identity, BiFunction<U,​? super T,​U> accumulator, BinaryOperator<U> combiner)
            ```
            
- streams support aggregate operation. examples of aggregate operations are forEach, count, average and sum
    
    - average return OptionalDouble

### Functional interfaces

- when you define a functional interface it won't be executed unless called with their respective methods
    - `Supplier<T> -> T get()`
    - `Consumer<T> -> void accept(T t)`
        - always check the type that the consumer can be used on.
    - `Predicate<T> -> boolean test(T t)`
    - `Function<T,R> -> R apply (T t)`
        - R is the return type and the T the input
        - when you use the Function functional interface pay attention to the input of the parameters. that will be the type of the first generic
        - lambda for a function is has only one parameter.
    -  function that always returns the same type as the type of its input(s)
        - UnaryOperator
        - BinaryOperator

### Comparator and Comparable

- when implementing `Comparator<T>` you need to override the `compare(T o1, T o2)` method
- when implementing `Comparable<T>` you need to override the `compareTo(T o1)` method
- when no explicit type is given then the type is implicitly set to `Object`
- To take advantage of lambda expressions, an interface must be a "functional" interface, which basically means that the interface must have exactly one abstract method. A lambda expression essentially provides the implementation for that abstract method.

### Streams

- when a range of numbers or items is given and you use terminal operation `findAny()` then the answer can be any one of the numbers despite the compiler saying otherwise.
- Stream flatMap(Function mapper) returns a stream consisting of the results of replacing each element of this stream with the contents of a mapped stream produced by applying the provided mapping function to each element.
- `peek(Consumer c)`
- `map` needs a function
- The return type of the `count()` method is long. `Collectors.counting()` also returns a long so pay attention to the datatype it is assigned to
- `Collectors.toList()` doesn't take any argument.
- `groupingBy()`
- `filter(Predicate p)` takes in a predicate
    - ```Java
                                                groupingBy(Function<? super T,? extends K> classifier)
                                                //Returns a Collector implementing a "group by" 
                                                //operation on input elements of type T, grouping elements according to a 
                                                //classification function, and returning the results in a Map.
                                                                                      
                                                groupingBy(Function<? super T,? extends K> classifier, 
                                                    Collector<? super T,A,D> downstream)
                                                //Returns a Collector implementing a cascaded "group by" operation on 
                                                //input elements of type T, grouping elements according to a 
                                                //classification function, and then performing a reduction operation 
                                                //on the values associated with a given key using the specified 
                                                //downstream Collector.
                                                                                      
                                                groupingBy(Function<? super T,? extends K> classifier, 
                                                    Supplier<M> mapFactory, 
                                                    Collector<? super T,A,D> downstream)
                                                //Returns a Collector implementing a cascaded "group by" 
                                                //operation on input elements of type T, grouping elements according to a 
                                                //classification function, and then performing a reduction operation 
                                                //on the values associated with a given key using the specified 
                                                //downstream Collector.
        ```
        
    - `forEach(Consumer c)` requires a `Consumer`
        
    - `flatMap(Function f)`
        
    - `mapToDouble(ToDoubleFunction tdf)`
        
    - `mapToInt(ToIntFunction tif)`
        
    - `mapToLong(ToLongFunction tlf)`
        

### Optional

- `Optional.of` method throws `NullPointerException` if you try to create an Optional with a null value. If you expect the argument to be null, you should use `Optional.ofNullable` method, which returns an empty Optional if the argument is null

### Lambda Operations on Streams

- when an output is shown like this `{C=[S3:C], A=[S1:A, S2:A]}` or when there is a true or false then we are dealing here with a `groupingBy()` `groupBy()` does not exist
- when you use a lambda expression that has a type. The functional interface you assigned it to needs to have their type specified.
- variables used in lambda expressions need to be final or effectively final

### Parallel Streams

- `Optional<T> reduce(BinaryOperator<T> accumulator)` Performs a reduction on the elements of this stream, using an associative accumulation function, and returns an Optional describing the reduced value, if any.
- `T reduce(T identity, BinaryOperator<T> accumulator)` Performs a reduction on the elements of this stream, using the provided identity value and an associative accumulation function, and returns the reduced value.
- `<U> U reduce(U identity, BiFunction<U,? super T,U> accumulator, BinaryOperator<U> combiner)` Performs a reduction on the elements of this stream, using the provided identity, accumulation and combining functions.
- min and max are valid reduction operations. The Stream version of these methods take a Comparator as an argument, while the versions in specialized streams such as IntStream and DoubleStream do not take any argument.
- `collect(Collector c)`. takes in a Collector and not list

### Lambda

- When your method body comprises only a single expression (i.e. without the opening an closing braces), you must omit the semi-colon
    
    - ```Java
                                                    //not this
                                                    processList(al, (int a, int b)->System.out.println(a*b); );
                                                    //but this
                                                    processList(al, (a, b)->System.out.println(a*b));
                                                    //the following is also valid
                                                    processList(al, (int a, int b)->{   System.out.println(a*b); });
        ```
        
- When creating a lambda expression, the variable in the lambda expression can't be the same as a variable that has already been created
    

### IntStream, LongStream, DoubleStream

- has `average()` and this returns an `OptionalDouble`
- has `mapToObj()` method which returns a stream, `mapToLong(IntToLongFunction iTLF)` whch returns a `LongStream` and a `mapToDouble(IntToDoubleFunction iTDF)` that returns a `DoubleStream`
- `IntStream.range(a, b)` = inlclude a and exclude b, `IntStream.rangeClosed(a,b)` = include a and b.
- Instream collect() method does not take a Collector. it takes a `IntFunction`
- does not have a `parallelStream()`
- if a stream has no elements with will return 0(IntStream,LongStream) or 0.0(DoubleStream)
- sum() function respectively returns the primitive which they are associated with
- for all three the map() function of their respective type DoubleFunction.

### Collectors

- `Collectors.toMap(key,value)`: throws `IllegalStateException` when you pass in a duplicate key.
- when you expect duplicate entries you can use `Collectors.toMap(Function, Function, BinaryOperator)`. the third parameter will merge the values of the duplicate entries into one.
- `Collectors.joining()` does not take any functional interface

### Parallel Streams

- Since peek is being invoked on a parallel stream, it will be invoked on the elements of the stream in any order.
    However, forEachOrdered will always process the elements in the order the elements were present in the original stream.