12. Annotations

### Annotations

- when you want to annotate a lambda expression the parameter's type needs to be specified
    
- example of an incorrect and correct annotation assignment
    
    - ```Java
                  //Don't do this
                  BinaryOperator<Integer> bin = @DebugInfo("lambda")( a, b)-> a+b;
                  //you cannot mix var and explicit types in lambda.
                  BinaryOperator<Integer> bin = ( @DebugInfo("lambda") var a, Integer b)-> a+b; 
                  
                  //do this
                  BinaryOperator<Integer> bin = ( @DebugInfo("lambda") Integer a, Integer b)-> a+b; 
                  //or 
                  BinaryOperator<Integer> bin = ( @DebugInfo("lambda1") Integer a, @DebugInfo("lambda1") Integer b)-> a+b; 
                  //or even this: 
                  BinaryOperator<Integer> bin = ( @DebugInfo("lambda") var a, var b)-> a+b;
        ```
        
- You can omit the element name while specifying a value only when the name of the element is value. Otherwise, you must specify the name of the element for which you are passing the value. example:
    
    - ```Java
                  public @interface MyArtifact {     
                      int id() default 0;     
                      String name(); 
                      }
                  //only if the required field is of name value()	 
                  @MyArtifact("method")     
                  void someMethod(int index){ }
                  
                  //needs to be
                  @MyArtifact(name="method")     
                  void someMethod(int index){ }
        ```
        
- what types you can put in an annotaion
    
    - A primitive type 2.
    - String 3.
    - Class or an invocation of Class
    - An enum type
    - An annotation type
    - An array type whose component type is one of the preceding types.
        - types that are not allowed are(multi-dimensional arrays, wrapper classes, Date values
- @Target is not a repeatable annotation
    
- correct and incorrect ways to specify a default:
    
    - ```Java
                  //non correct way to specify a default value
                  //remove the equals sign
                  default="" 
                  //The correct way to specify a default   
                  String name() default""; 
                  String[] params() default { "a", "b" }; 
                  int value() default 10;
        ```
        
- java built in annotaions
    
    - ```java
                  //core java
                  @Override
                  @SuppressWarnings
                  @Deprecated
                  @SafeVarargs
                  @FunctionalInterface
                  @Native
                  //meta annotations annotations that apply to other annotations
                  //These annotations are used when you create your own new annotations
                  @Target
                  @Retention
                  @Inherited
                  @Documented
                  @Repeatable
        ```
        
- ways to use an annotations
    
    - ```Java
                  @Retention(RetentionPolicy.RUNTIME) 
                  public @interface DebugInfo {     
                      String value() default "";     
                      String[] params();     
                      String date();     
                      int depth() default 10;
                  }
                  
                  //when there is a field that has an array, when calling
                  //that annotation you can pass in an array or a single value
                  //when more than one value is being placed the name of the field is required
                  //example
                   
                  @DebugInfo(date = "2019", params = "index") 
                  void applyLogic(int index){ 
                  }
        ```
        
- A retention policy determines at what point annotation should be discarded.
    
    - Java defined 3 types of retention policies through java.lang.annotation.RetentionPolicy enumeration. It has SOURCE, CLASS and RUNTIME.
        - Annotation with retention policy SOURCE will be retained only with source code, and discarded during compile time.
        - Annotation with retention policy CLASS will be retained till compiling the code, and discarded during runtime.
        - Annotation with retention policy RUNTIME will be available to the JVM through runtime.
- Compiler generates the "unchecked or unsafe operations" warning when it notices the possibility of a collection getting corrupt due to insertion of incompatible elements. In the given code, since the variable l uses a raw List, the compiler cannot know what kind of elements this list is supposed to contain. So, when you try to add a String to it, the compiler thinks that this might corrupt the list and generates a warning. If you are sure that it is ok to add strings to this list, you can apply @SuppressWarnings("unchecked") to the method to suppress this warning.
    
- `@NonNull` has to be placed before the data type
    
- You need to know the following facts about enums
    
    - Enum constructor is always private. You cannot make it public or protected. If an enum type has no constructor declarations, then a private constructor that takes no parameters is automatically provided.
    - An enum is implicitly final, which means you cannot extend it.
    - You cannot extend an enum from another enum or class because an enum implicitly extends java.lang.Enum. But an enum can implement interfaces.
    - Since enum maintains exactly one instance of its constants, you cannot clone it. You cannot even override the clone method in an enum because java.lang.Enum makes it final.
    - Compiler provides an enum with two public static methods automatically - values() and valueOf(String). The values() method returns an array of its constants and valueOf() method tries to match the String argument exactly (i.e. case sensitive) with an enum constant and returns that constant if successful otherwise it throws java.lang.IllegalArgumentException.
    - By default, an enum's toString() prints the enum name but you can override it to print anything you want.
- he following are a few more important facts about java.lang.Enum which you should know:
    
    - It implements java.lang.Comparable (thus, an enum can be added to sorted collections such as SortedSet, TreeSet, and TreeMap). The natural order of the enum values is the order in which they are defined i.e. in the order of their ordinal value.
    - It has a method ordinal(), which returns the index (starting with 0) of that constant i.e. the position of that constant in its enum declaration.
    - It has a method name(), which returns the name of this enum constant, exactly as declared in its enum declaration.
- `@Deprecated` will always produce a warning
    
- The value of the @Repeatable meta-annotation, in parentheses, is the type of the container annotation that the Java compiler generates to store repeating annotations. Containing annotation type must have a value element with an array type. The component type of the array type must be the repeatable annotation type. It is possibe to use other elements in the container annotation but they must have default values.
    
- It is possible to annotate lambda parameters but to do that the type of the lambda parameter must be specified.