6. Concurrency

- new `Thread( aRunnable );` is valid. But new `Thread( aCallable );` is not.
    - in a `Executors.newSingleThreadExecutor()` when you `submit()` a lambda expression that returns a value will be of type `java.util.concurrent.Callable.` and when it does not return anything implements `Runnable`.

### synchronization and locks

- A thread exclusively owns the intrinsic lock between the time it has acquired the lock and released the lock.
- a thread can acquire a lock on the class

### ConcurrentHashMap

- `put(key,value)`: when the key exists it will replace the value of the one currently in the map
- `putIfAbsent(key,value)`: it checks first if the key exists in the map. if it does not exist it will add it to the map and if it does't nothing will change. this will make sure that the value is not modified

### ExecutorService

- ExecutorService extends Executor interface. `Executor` allows you to execute a `Runnable` and `ExecutorService` allows you to execute a `Callable`.
- `Executors` is a utility class that provides several static methods to create instances of ExecutorService. All such methods start with new e.g. `newSingleThreadExecutor()`.
    You should at least remember the following methods: `newFixedThreadPool(int noOfThreads)`, `newSingleThreadExecutor()`, `newCachedThreadPool()`, `newSingleThreadScheduledExecutor()`, `newScheduledThreadPool(int corePoolSize)`. to create an ExecutorService you need one of these code fragments.

### Callable and Runnable

### ReadWriteLock

has methods readLock and writeLock and on those you can chain lock() or unlock()

### Thread Safety

- to make a variable thread safe you need to make it synchronized.