### Paths

- `//.//` and `//..//` count as components in a path calling `getNameCount()`
    - `//.//` is always redundant when normalizing so it will be removed. `//..//` and the preceding directory cancel each other out
- `relativize(Path)`: normalizes first then compares
    - if one path has a root (for example, if a path starts with a // or c:) and the other does not, relativize cannot work and it will throw an `IllegalArgumentException`.
- the root `C:` is not seen as a part of the path. index 0 starts at the part after the root.
- `getRoot()` returns the root and a forward slash
- `resolve(path)` adds a part to the path
    - when the argument is a **relative path** is **appended** to the **absolute path**
    - When the argument to resolve starts with the root (such as c: or, on *nix, a /), the result is same as the argument.
- `Files.newDirectoryStream(Path dir, String globPattern)`
    - `*.java` : Matches a path that represents a file name ending in .java
    - `*.*` : Matches file names containing a dot
    - `*.{java,class}` : Matches file names ending with .java or .class
    - `foo.?` : Matches file names starting with foo. and a single character extension
- `/` is not part of a path name
- `Path` is an interface so you can't instantiate it or call static methods on it. `Paths` does have static methods.
- If you pass a negative index or a value greater than or equal to the number of elements, or this path has zero name elements, `java.lang.IllegalArgumentException` is thrown. It DOES NOT return null.

### Files

- `Files.lines(Path path)` -\> returns a Stream&lt;String&gt;
- `Files.readAllLines()` -\> returns List&lt;String&gt;
- `Files.find()` -\> returns a Stream&lt;Path&gt;
- `Files.walk(Path start, FileVisitOption... options)` and `Files.walk(Path start, int maxDepth, FileVisitOption... options)`return a Stream that is lazily populated. can't call a function on this walk()
- Files.copy(Path source, Path target, CopyOption... options)

### File

- You can always create a File object whether or not an actual file or directory by that name exists.( `var f = new File("x");` will not throw an Exception at runtime )

### Characters and Binary Streams

- `DataOutputStream` provides methods such as `writeInt`, `writeChar`, and `writeDouble`, for writing complete value of the primitives to a file. So if you want to write an integer to the file, you should use `writeInt(1)` in which case a file of size 4 bytes will be created.
    
- OutputStream does not provide methods for writing primitives. It writes bytes only. Therefore, this will not compile.
    
- a Reader object just give a readable stream. you can't go back to reread data except when you maintain the data in a buffer(BufferedReader). The markSupported, mark, and reset methods help you go back and forth in the data stream if the underlying reader supports it.  They allow you to set a point in the stream by calling the mark method. This point is like a bookmark in a book. You can return back to the same point by calling the reset method. Any call to read after reset will return the data right after the bookmark.
    
- getParent() returns a String and getParentFile() returns a File object.
    
- Serialization
    
- when you want to serialize an object that uses another object that does not implement serializable you need to implement it or make the field transient.
    
- If a class that implements `Serializable` does not explicitly define serialVersionUID field, the compiler automatically adds this field. It assignes this field a value that is computed based on the attributes of the class such as the fields and the implemented interfaces.
    

### PrintWriter

- All the write and print methods of `PrintWriter` return void. so attaching it to a primitive will return void.
- `PrintWriter` does have a `println(String)` method, it returns void. Thus, you cannot chain anything to it.
- `PrintWriter`'s methods don't throw any I/O exceptions because they supress the errors in writing and set an internal flag for error status instead. The `checkError` method returns true if there has been a problem in writing.
- `PrintWriter`'s write method writes a single character to the file. The size in bytes of a character depends on the default character encoding of the underlying platform. For example, if the encoding is UTF-8, only 1 byte will be written and the size of the file will be 1 byte.
- `PrintWriter`'s print(int) method actually writes the string produced by String.valueOf(int). This string is translated into bytes according to the platform's default character encoding, and these bytes are written in using the write(int) method. Therefore, in this case, if the default character encoding is UTF-8, 2 bytes will be written.
- PrintWriter does not provide explicit methods for writing primitives (i.e. writeInt, writeBoolean, etc.). It has overloaded print methods that take various primitives (i.e. print(int), print(boolean), print(long), and print(char) as arguments). Therefore, this will not compile.
- When  creating a PrintWriter object you can put the following
    - ```Java
                                new PrintWriter(File file)
                                    new PrintWriter(OutputStream out)
                                    new PrintWriter(Writer out)
                                    new PrintWriter(String fileName)
        ```
        
    - Writer can't be converted into a Reader
        

### BufferedReader

- There is no readLines() method in BufferedReader.
    
- The lines() method has been added to java.io.BufferedReader in Java 1.8. It returns Stream&lt;String&gt;.
    
- A `BufferedReader` can only be created using a Reader such as FileReader. It cannot directly operate on a file.


```ad-note
title: BufferedReader
~~~java

//how to declare a buffered reader 
BufferedReader bufferedReader 
			= new BufferedReader(new FileReader(fullFilePath)); 
BufferedReader bufferedReader 
			= new BufferedReader(new FileReader( new File(fullFilePath)));
                           
Constructor
BufferedReader(Reader reader)
You can put a BufferedReader in a BufferedReader.
```

- markSupported() method returns true if the reader supports rereading data that has already been read
    
- the mark(limit) method sets a bookmark for you in the stream and reset() method will go to the data after the bookmark.
    

### BufferedWriter

- BufferedWriter's append method = works same as the write(String) method. It doesn't really append the data to the end of the existing content. It overwrites the existing content. does not have a writeUTF
- The flush method flushes the stream and makes sure any data that is in the stream but is not written to the file yet, is written to the file. It does not close the stream. A call to flush is useful when you want to write the contents to the file but don't want to close the writer yet.
- The close method flushes the stream and makes sure that all data is actually written to the file.
- when the bufferedwriter calls the close() method there is no need for a flush

### FileReader

- FileReader constructors
    - ```Java
                                    FileReader(File file)
                                    FileReader(FileDescriptor fd)
                                    FileReader(String fileName)
        ```
        

### FileWriter

- if you call the `write()` method but the file does not exists it will create the file

### RandomAccesFile

- `RandomAccessFile​(File file, String mode)` mode can be the following: `"r"`, `"rw"`, `"rws"`, and `"rwd"`
- has methods `readUTF()` and `writeUTF()`
- when writing to a `RandomAccesFile` file you need to first use the `seek(long position)` method

### Serialization

- When you serialize to a file and then change the class properties. de-serializing the file will cause the object to have default values.
- when you make a field transient implement readObject(ObjectInputStream os ) and writeObject(ObjectOutputStream os) to read and write the state of the object.

### InputStream

- InputStream.read() fills the buffer with the bytes actually read. So even if the buffer is larger than the available number of bytes, it is not a cause for any exception.
- When you create a FileOutputStream without specifying the append mode (which can be true or false), it overwrites the existing file.

### Console

- when concole is ran in the background then console will not be available. System.console() will return null in this regard and any operation that require the console will return a nullpointer exception
- you can read as well as write only character data from/to it